Okay.
Oh, that's a very long story, but I'll try to make it about a short one.
So I actually grew up in Canada. I'm from British Columbia, from BC.
I grew up near Vancouver, near the ocean, near the US border.
So...
And my parents are not from Canada. My mom came from Switzerland when she was 12.
My dad came from Germany when he was
nineteen.
Yeah.
Completely different things. So actually we still don't really know why my grandpa decided to move
everybody the whole family with seven kids.
um over to Canada when they had a pretty good life
in Greece. When you were in Canada they
I'm growing u, it costs so much
It costs. So, you have to go in a boat for three weeks, modeling stuff right.
But um
uh went back for visits and a few
We grew up and went back to live for a while, but they made me come back to Canada because...
The guys didn't want to go in the Swiss Army because it's mandatory.
So like one of my uncles, he went deaf and he was deaf for a couple of years.
then we have go to Switzerland because their mind has changed.
And same with one of the other ones too. So
Yeah, that's how my mom's family came to Canada.
And my dad's family, they were Germans living in
Poland. In world war II. And after
the war. Um there were Germans all over Eastern Europe.
and they were all mistreated after the wars and all got locked up
in  a camp. And then um they were going to end up in East Germany but
we already knew that wasn't going to be a good place to live because it's communist
they can't take a number. So then they got to West Germany.
I had to go across the water.
And then my dad, watching Germany, he grew up speaking with Germans.
coz when we gets to Germany and the other kids are coming for you with funny accents, he stop
You're like Polish people and
And he knew that the Germans had done this war, so he didn't really feel the effects.
Like, wow, I don't really want to be associated with this country.
As soon as he was old enough and learned. He had that mass.
in Canada and he went and then about a year later the rest of the family
he offer.
That's a good question. Will my mom...
They didn't have any ESL programs back in the day, so...
They just put, like, they put her in grade one. I mean, they put all the kids in grade one. So which
She didn't like that, but
she ended like finishing school like a year or two late just because they couldn't teach behind.
um ... and... My dad.
Well, he went to Saskatchewan and worked on his aunt and uncle's farm.
and you don't have to learn English right away because they spoke German.
He work from Germany. They ... um
moved there like before the war, so...
uh but then, eventually
Went to work at another farm when his rest of the family went over and
Someone from another cousin of a cousin.
came up from B.C. to visit. Um Some of their neighbors.
something as, and offered my dad to come out
BC, British Columbia, which is the west coast, a lot nicer, better weather.
And um he went out there and he liked it so much, he just said, uh
He told, and he told everyone else, you should all come here.
So they did.
So they're all there, they're all there now. So all my cousins, like my dad had, their family had six.
So they're are all. They're all there.
Looks like they have a lot of customers today.
Yeah, the guy that had invited my dad to the party was Christian.
He invited my dad to his church.
And my mom's family had invited us in church.
So they, that's how they met.
And I actually think that, Yeah, my mom had also.
they all work in the farm at the summer,  a lot of the teenagers go work on the farm.
No.
Yeah.
Yeah, because by that time my mom went, my mom was
Maybe I think they're five years apart. Something like that.
My mom was 15 and my dad was 20 or maybe it was 16 and 21. Something like that and
I have  two semester.
I have an older brother, and then me, and then two sisters, and then a brother.
I'm number two. Yes. Number 31.
I grew up there.
Uh When I finished college, I came down to Pasadena to do an internship.
At a mission,  um office?
And while I was down there um I never had
Because um always um  it was a ministry that helps Christians get over
The self-supporting missionary so they get a job in another country.
and then you have a ministry. Just because someone lives in another country doesn't mean that they have
This was more of a focus where.
These are people who wanted testing to have them in between another country.
So, And then I help my husband go.
a few and a couple years before they helped him go to Africa.
So when he came back, he sort of kept in touch with him because the director.
It was a woman who worked a lot with college students, student groups.
like they study Christians and they look for family and intervene
universities, overseas.
Okay.